doc/user/project/web_ide/index.md, before:

# Web IDE

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/4539) in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 10.4.
> - [Moved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-foss/-/issues/44157) to GitLab Core in 10.7.

The Web IDE editor makes it faster and easier to contribute changes to your
projects by providing an advanced editor with commit staging.

## Open the Web IDE

You can open the Web IDE when viewing a file, from the repository file list,
and from merge requests.

![Open Web IDE](img/open_web_ide.png)

## File finder

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-foss/-/merge_requests/18323) in [GitLab Core](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 10.8.

The file finder allows you to quickly open files in the current branch by
searching. The file finder is launched using the keyboard shortcut `Command-p`,
`Control-p`, or `t` (when editor is not in focus). Type the filename or
file path fragments to start seeing results.

## Syntax highlighting

As expected from an IDE, syntax highlighting for many languages within
the Web IDE will make your direct editing even easier.

The Web IDE currently provides:

- Basic syntax colorization for a variety of programming, scripting and markup
  languages such as XML, PHP, C#, C++, Markdown, Java, VB, Batch, Python, Ruby,
  and Objective-C.
- IntelliSense and validation support (displaying errors and warnings, providing
  smart completions, formatting, and outlining) for some languages. For example:
  TypeScript, JavaScript, CSS, LESS, SCSS, JSON, and HTML.

Because the Web IDE is based on the [Monaco Editor](https://microsoft.github.io/monaco-editor/),
you can find a more complete list of supported languages in the
[Monaco languages](https://github.com/Microsoft/monaco-languages) repository.

NOTE: **Note:**
Single file editing is based on the [Ace Editor](https://ace.c9.io).

### Themes

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/2389) in GitLab 13.0.

All the themes GitLab supports for syntax highlighting are added to the Web IDE's code editor.
You can pick a theme from your [profile preferences](../../profile/preferences.md).

The themes are available only in the Web IDE file editor, except for the [dark theme](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/209808),
which applies to the entire Web IDE screen.

| Solarized Light Theme                                         | Dark Theme                              |
|---------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
| ![Solarized Light Theme](img/solarized_light_theme_v13.0.png) | ![Dark Theme](img/dark_theme_v13.0.png) |

## Commit changes

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/4539) in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 10.4.
> - [Moved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-foss/-/issues/44157) to GitLab Core in 10.7.
> - From [GitLab 12.7 onward](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/33441), files were automatically staged.
> - From [GitLab 12.9 onward](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/196609), support for staging files was removed to prevent loss of unstaged data. All your current changes necessarily have to be committed or discarded.

After making your changes, click the **Commit** button on the bottom-left to
review the list of changed files.

Once you have finalized your changes, you can add a commit message, commit the
changes and directly create a merge request. In case you don't have write
access to the selected branch, you will see a warning, but still be able to create
a new branch and start a merge request.

To discard a change in a particular file, click the **Discard changes** button on that
file in the changes tab. To discard all the changes, click the trash icon on the
top-right corner of the changes sidebar.

![Commit changes](img/commit_changes_v12_9.png)

## Reviewing changes

Before you commit your changes, you can compare them with the previous commit
by switching to the review mode or selecting the file from the list of changes.

An additional review mode is available when you open a merge request, which
shows you a preview of the merge request diff if you commit your changes.

## View CI job logs

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-foss/-/merge_requests/19279) in [GitLab Core](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 11.0.

You can use the Web IDE to quickly fix failing tests by opening
the branch or merge request in the Web IDE and opening the logs of the failed
job. You can access the status of all jobs for the most recent pipeline and job
traces for the current commit by clicking the **Pipelines** button in the top
right.

The pipeline status is also shown at all times in the status bar in the bottom
left.

## Switching merge requests

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-foss/-/merge_requests/19318) in [GitLab Core](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 11.0.

To switch between your authored and assigned merge requests, click the
dropdown in the top of the sidebar to open a list of merge requests. You will
need to commit or discard all your changes before switching to a different merge
request.

## Switching branches

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-foss/-/merge_requests/20850) in [GitLab Core](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 11.2.

To switch between branches of the current project repository, click the dropdown
in the top of the sidebar to open a list of branches.
You will need to commit or discard all your changes before switching to a
different branch.

## Live Preview

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-foss/-/merge_requests/19764) in [GitLab Core](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 11.2.
> - [Renamed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/213853) from _Client Side Evaluation_ to _Live Preview_ in GitLab 13.0.

You can use the Web IDE to preview JavaScript projects right in the browser.
This feature uses CodeSandbox to compile and bundle the JavaScript used to
preview the web application.

![Web IDE Live Preview](img/live_preview_v13_0.png)

Additionally, for public projects an **Open in CodeSandbox** button is available
to transfer the contents of the project into a public CodeSandbox project to
quickly share your project with others.

### Enabling Live Preview

The Live Preview feature needs to be enabled in the GitLab instances
admin settings. Live Preview is enabled for all projects on
GitLab.com

![Admin Live Preview setting](img/admin_live_preview_v13_0.png)

Once you have done that, you can preview projects with a `package.json` file and
a `main` entry point inside the Web IDE. An example `package.json` is shown
below.

```json
{
  "main": "index.js",
  "dependencies": {
    "vue": "latest"
  }
}
```

## Interactive Web Terminals for the Web IDE

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/5426) in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 11.6.
> - [Moved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/211685) to GitLab Core in 13.1.

CAUTION: **Warning:**
Interactive Web Terminals for the Web IDE is currently in **Beta**.
Shared Runners [do not yet support Interactive Web Terminals](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/24674),
so you would need to use your own private Runner(s) to make use of this feature.

[Interactive Web Terminals](../../../ci/interactive_web_terminal/index.md)
give the project [Maintainers](../../permissions.md#project-members-permissions)
user access to a terminal to interact with the Runner directly from
GitLab, including through the Web IDE.

### Runner configuration

Some things need to be configured in the runner for the interactive web terminal
to work:

- The Runner needs to have
  [`[session_server]` configured properly](https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/configuration/advanced-configuration.html#the-session_server-section).
- If you are using a reverse proxy with your GitLab instance, web terminals need to be
  [enabled](../../../administration/integration/terminal.md#enabling-and-disabling-terminal-support). **(ULTIMATE ONLY)**

If you have the terminal open and the job has finished with its tasks, the
terminal will block the job from finishing for the duration configured in
[`[session_server].terminal_max_retention_time`](https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/configuration/advanced-configuration.html#the-session_server-section)
until you close the terminal window.

NOTE: **Note:** Not all executors are
[supported](https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/executors/#compatibility-chart)

### Web IDE configuration file

In order to enable the Web IDE terminals you need to create the file
`.gitlab/.gitlab-webide.yml` inside the repository's root. This
file is fairly similar to the [CI configuration file](../../../ci/yaml/README.md)
syntax but with some restrictions:

- No global blocks can be defined (ie: `before_script` or `after_script`)
- Only one job named `terminal` can be added to this file.
- Only the keywords `image`, `services`, `tags`, `before_script`, `script`, and
  `variables` are allowed to be used to configure the job.
- To connect to the interactive terminal, the `terminal` job must be still alive
  and running, otherwise the terminal won't be able to connect to the job's session.
  By default the `script` keyword has the value `sleep 60` to prevent
  the job from ending and giving the Web IDE enough time to connect. This means
  that, if you override the default `script` value, you'll have to add a command
  which would keep the job running, like `sleep`.

In the code below there is an example of this configuration file:

```yaml
terminal:
  before_script:
    - apt-get update
  script: sleep 60
  variables:
    RAILS_ENV: "test"
    NODE_ENV: "test"
```

Once the terminal has started, the console will be displayed and we could access
the project repository files.

**Important**. The terminal job is branch dependent. This means that the
configuration file used to trigger and configure the terminal will be the one in
the selected branch of the Web IDE.

If there is no configuration file in a branch, an error message will be shown.

### Running interactive terminals in the Web IDE

If Interactive Terminals are available for the current user, the **Terminal** button
will be visible in the right sidebar of the Web IDE. Click this button to open
or close the terminal tab.

Once open, the tab will show the **Start Web Terminal** button. This button may
be disabled if the environment is not configured correctly. If so, a status
message will describe the issue. Here are some reasons why **Start Web Terminal**
may be disabled:

- `.gitlab/.gitlab-webide.yml` does not exist or is set up incorrectly.
- No active private runners are available for the project.

If active, clicking the **Start Web Terminal** button will load the terminal view
and start connecting to the runner's terminal. At any time, the **Terminal** tab
can be closed and reopened and the state of the terminal will not be affected.

When the terminal is started and is successfully connected to the runner, then the
runner's shell prompt will appear in the terminal. From here, you can enter
commands that will be executed within the runner's environment. This is similar
to running commands in a local terminal or through SSH.

While the terminal is running, it can be stopped by clicking **Stop Terminal**.
This will disconnect the terminal and stop the runner's terminal job. From here,
click **Restart Terminal** to start a new terminal session.

### File syncing to web terminal

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/5276) in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 12.0.
> - [Moved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/211686) to GitLab Core in 13.1.

File changes in the Web IDE can be synced to a running web terminal.
This enables users to test their code changes in a preconfigured terminal
environment.

NOTE: **Note:**
Only file changes in the Web IDE are synced to the terminal.
Changes made in the terminal are **not** synced to the Web IDE.
This feature is only available for Kubernetes Runners.

To enable file syncing to the web terminal, the `.gitlab/.gitlab-webide.yml`
file needs to have a `webide-file-sync` service configured. Here is an example
configuration for a Node JS project which uses this service:

```yaml
terminal:
  # This can be any image that has the necessary runtime environment for your project.
  image:
    name: node:10-alpine
  services:
    - name: registry.gitlab.com/gitlab-org/webide-file-sync:latest
      alias: webide-file-sync
      entrypoint: ["/bin/sh"]
      command: ["-c", "sleep 5 && ./webide-file-sync -project-dir $CI_PROJECT_DIR"]
      ports:
        # The `webide-file-sync` executable defaults to port 3000.
        - number: 3000
```

- The `webide-file-sync` executable must start **after** the project
  directory is available. This is why we need to add `sleep 5` to the `command`.
  See [this issue](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/webide-file-sync/-/issues/7) for
  more information.
- `$CI_PROJECT_DIR` is a
  [predefined environment variable](../../../ci/variables/predefined_variables.md)
  for GitLab Runners. This is where your project's repository will be.

Once you have configured the web terminal for file syncing, then when the web
terminal is started, a **Terminal** status will be visible in the status bar.

![Web IDE Client Side Evaluation](img/terminal_status.png)

Changes made to your files via the Web IDE will sync to the running terminal
when:

- <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>S</kbd> (or <kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>S</kbd> on Mac)
  is pressed while editing a file.
- Anything outside the file editor is clicked after editing a file.
- A file or folder is created, deleted, or renamed.

### Limitations

Interactive Terminals is in a beta phase and will continue to be improved upon in upcoming
releases. In the meantime, please note that the user is limited to having only one
active terminal at a time.

### Troubleshooting

- If the terminal's text is gray and unresponsive, then the terminal has stopped
  and it can no longer be used. A stopped terminal can be restarted by clicking
  **Restart Terminal**.
- If the terminal displays **Connection Failure**, then the terminal could not
  connect to the runner. Please try to stop and restart the terminal. If the
  problem persists, double check your runner configuration.

Commit message:

Add docs about syntax highlighting differences
We use Monarch and Rogue libraries for syntax highlighting
but the docs lack any detail about Monarch.

doc/user/project/web_ide/index.md, after:

# Web IDE

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/4539) in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 10.4.
> - [Moved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-foss/-/issues/44157) to GitLab Core in 10.7.

The Web IDE editor makes it faster and easier to contribute changes to your
projects by providing an advanced editor with commit staging.

## Open the Web IDE

You can open the Web IDE when viewing a file, from the repository file list,
and from merge requests.

![Open Web IDE](img/open_web_ide.png)

## File finder

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-foss/-/merge_requests/18323) in [GitLab Core](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 10.8.

The file finder allows you to quickly open files in the current branch by
searching. The file finder is launched using the keyboard shortcut `Command-p`,
`Control-p`, or `t` (when editor is not in focus). Type the filename or
file path fragments to start seeing results.

## Syntax highlighting

As expected from an IDE, syntax highlighting for many languages within
the Web IDE will make your direct editing even easier.

The Web IDE currently provides:

- Basic syntax colorization for a variety of programming, scripting and markup
  languages such as XML, PHP, C#, C++, Markdown, Java, VB, Batch, Python, Ruby,
  and Objective-C.
- IntelliSense and validation support (displaying errors and warnings, providing
  smart completions, formatting, and outlining) for some languages. For example:
  TypeScript, JavaScript, CSS, LESS, SCSS, JSON, and HTML.

Because the Web IDE is based on the [Monaco Editor](https://microsoft.github.io/monaco-editor/),
you can find a more complete list of supported languages in the
[Monaco languages](https://github.com/Microsoft/monaco-languages) repository. Under the hood,
Monaco uses [Monarch library](https://microsoft.github.io/monaco-editor/monarch.html) for syntax highlighting.

You can [contribute to GitLab](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/blob/master/app/assets/javascripts/ide/lib/languages/README.md)
to add support for languages that aren't currently supported.

NOTE: **Note:**
Single file editing is based on the [Ace Editor](https://ace.c9.io).

### Themes

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/2389) in GitLab 13.0.

All the themes GitLab supports for syntax highlighting are added to the Web IDE's code editor.
You can pick a theme from your [profile preferences](../../profile/preferences.md).

The themes are available only in the Web IDE file editor, except for the [dark theme](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/209808),
which applies to the entire Web IDE screen.

| Solarized Light Theme                                         | Dark Theme                              |
|---------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
| ![Solarized Light Theme](img/solarized_light_theme_v13.0.png) | ![Dark Theme](img/dark_theme_v13.0.png) |

## Commit changes

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/4539) in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 10.4.
> - [Moved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-foss/-/issues/44157) to GitLab Core in 10.7.
> - From [GitLab 12.7 onward](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/33441), files were automatically staged.
> - From [GitLab 12.9 onward](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/196609), support for staging files was removed to prevent loss of unstaged data. All your current changes necessarily have to be committed or discarded.

After making your changes, click the **Commit** button on the bottom-left to
review the list of changed files.

Once you have finalized your changes, you can add a commit message, commit the
changes and directly create a merge request. In case you don't have write
access to the selected branch, you will see a warning, but still be able to create
a new branch and start a merge request.

To discard a change in a particular file, click the **Discard changes** button on that
file in the changes tab. To discard all the changes, click the trash icon on the
top-right corner of the changes sidebar.

![Commit changes](img/commit_changes_v12_9.png)

## Reviewing changes

Before you commit your changes, you can compare them with the previous commit
by switching to the review mode or selecting the file from the list of changes.

An additional review mode is available when you open a merge request, which
shows you a preview of the merge request diff if you commit your changes.

## View CI job logs

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-foss/-/merge_requests/19279) in [GitLab Core](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 11.0.

You can use the Web IDE to quickly fix failing tests by opening
the branch or merge request in the Web IDE and opening the logs of the failed
job. You can access the status of all jobs for the most recent pipeline and job
traces for the current commit by clicking the **Pipelines** button in the top
right.

The pipeline status is also shown at all times in the status bar in the bottom
left.

## Switching merge requests

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-foss/-/merge_requests/19318) in [GitLab Core](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 11.0.

To switch between your authored and assigned merge requests, click the
dropdown in the top of the sidebar to open a list of merge requests. You will
need to commit or discard all your changes before switching to a different merge
request.

## Switching branches

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-foss/-/merge_requests/20850) in [GitLab Core](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 11.2.

To switch between branches of the current project repository, click the dropdown
in the top of the sidebar to open a list of branches.
You will need to commit or discard all your changes before switching to a
different branch.

## Live Preview

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-foss/-/merge_requests/19764) in [GitLab Core](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 11.2.
> - [Renamed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/213853) from _Client Side Evaluation_ to _Live Preview_ in GitLab 13.0.

You can use the Web IDE to preview JavaScript projects right in the browser.
This feature uses CodeSandbox to compile and bundle the JavaScript used to
preview the web application.

![Web IDE Live Preview](img/live_preview_v13_0.png)

Additionally, for public projects an **Open in CodeSandbox** button is available
to transfer the contents of the project into a public CodeSandbox project to
quickly share your project with others.

### Enabling Live Preview

The Live Preview feature needs to be enabled in the GitLab instances
admin settings. Live Preview is enabled for all projects on
GitLab.com

![Admin Live Preview setting](img/admin_live_preview_v13_0.png)

Once you have done that, you can preview projects with a `package.json` file and
a `main` entry point inside the Web IDE. An example `package.json` is shown
below.

```json
{
  "main": "index.js",
  "dependencies": {
    "vue": "latest"
  }
}
```

## Interactive Web Terminals for the Web IDE

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/5426) in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 11.6.
> - [Moved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/211685) to GitLab Core in 13.1.

CAUTION: **Warning:**
Interactive Web Terminals for the Web IDE is currently in **Beta**.
Shared Runners [do not yet support Interactive Web Terminals](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/24674),
so you would need to use your own private Runner(s) to make use of this feature.

[Interactive Web Terminals](../../../ci/interactive_web_terminal/index.md)
give the project [Maintainers](../../permissions.md#project-members-permissions)
user access to a terminal to interact with the Runner directly from
GitLab, including through the Web IDE.

### Runner configuration

Some things need to be configured in the runner for the interactive web terminal
to work:

- The Runner needs to have
  [`[session_server]` configured properly](https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/configuration/advanced-configuration.html#the-session_server-section).
- If you are using a reverse proxy with your GitLab instance, web terminals need to be
  [enabled](../../../administration/integration/terminal.md#enabling-and-disabling-terminal-support). **(ULTIMATE ONLY)**

If you have the terminal open and the job has finished with its tasks, the
terminal will block the job from finishing for the duration configured in
[`[session_server].terminal_max_retention_time`](https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/configuration/advanced-configuration.html#the-session_server-section)
until you close the terminal window.

NOTE: **Note:** Not all executors are
[supported](https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/executors/#compatibility-chart)

### Web IDE configuration file

In order to enable the Web IDE terminals you need to create the file
`.gitlab/.gitlab-webide.yml` inside the repository's root. This
file is fairly similar to the [CI configuration file](../../../ci/yaml/README.md)
syntax but with some restrictions:

- No global blocks can be defined (ie: `before_script` or `after_script`)
- Only one job named `terminal` can be added to this file.
- Only the keywords `image`, `services`, `tags`, `before_script`, `script`, and
  `variables` are allowed to be used to configure the job.
- To connect to the interactive terminal, the `terminal` job must be still alive
  and running, otherwise the terminal won't be able to connect to the job's session.
  By default the `script` keyword has the value `sleep 60` to prevent
  the job from ending and giving the Web IDE enough time to connect. This means
  that, if you override the default `script` value, you'll have to add a command
  which would keep the job running, like `sleep`.

In the code below there is an example of this configuration file:

```yaml
terminal:
  before_script:
    - apt-get update
  script: sleep 60
  variables:
    RAILS_ENV: "test"
    NODE_ENV: "test"
```

Once the terminal has started, the console will be displayed and we could access
the project repository files.

**Important**. The terminal job is branch dependent. This means that the
configuration file used to trigger and configure the terminal will be the one in
the selected branch of the Web IDE.

If there is no configuration file in a branch, an error message will be shown.

### Running interactive terminals in the Web IDE

If Interactive Terminals are available for the current user, the **Terminal** button
will be visible in the right sidebar of the Web IDE. Click this button to open
or close the terminal tab.

Once open, the tab will show the **Start Web Terminal** button. This button may
be disabled if the environment is not configured correctly. If so, a status
message will describe the issue. Here are some reasons why **Start Web Terminal**
may be disabled:

- `.gitlab/.gitlab-webide.yml` does not exist or is set up incorrectly.
- No active private runners are available for the project.

If active, clicking the **Start Web Terminal** button will load the terminal view
and start connecting to the runner's terminal. At any time, the **Terminal** tab
can be closed and reopened and the state of the terminal will not be affected.

When the terminal is started and is successfully connected to the runner, then the
runner's shell prompt will appear in the terminal. From here, you can enter
commands that will be executed within the runner's environment. This is similar
to running commands in a local terminal or through SSH.

While the terminal is running, it can be stopped by clicking **Stop Terminal**.
This will disconnect the terminal and stop the runner's terminal job. From here,
click **Restart Terminal** to start a new terminal session.

### File syncing to web terminal

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/5276) in [GitLab Ultimate](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 12.0.
> - [Moved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/211686) to GitLab Core in 13.1.

File changes in the Web IDE can be synced to a running web terminal.
This enables users to test their code changes in a preconfigured terminal
environment.

NOTE: **Note:**
Only file changes in the Web IDE are synced to the terminal.
Changes made in the terminal are **not** synced to the Web IDE.
This feature is only available for Kubernetes Runners.

To enable file syncing to the web terminal, the `.gitlab/.gitlab-webide.yml`
file needs to have a `webide-file-sync` service configured. Here is an example
configuration for a Node JS project which uses this service:

```yaml
terminal:
  # This can be any image that has the necessary runtime environment for your project.
  image:
    name: node:10-alpine
  services:
    - name: registry.gitlab.com/gitlab-org/webide-file-sync:latest
      alias: webide-file-sync
      entrypoint: ["/bin/sh"]
      command: ["-c", "sleep 5 && ./webide-file-sync -project-dir $CI_PROJECT_DIR"]
      ports:
        # The `webide-file-sync` executable defaults to port 3000.
        - number: 3000
```

- The `webide-file-sync` executable must start **after** the project
  directory is available. This is why we need to add `sleep 5` to the `command`.
  See [this issue](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/webide-file-sync/-/issues/7) for
  more information.
- `$CI_PROJECT_DIR` is a
  [predefined environment variable](../../../ci/variables/predefined_variables.md)
  for GitLab Runners. This is where your project's repository will be.

Once you have configured the web terminal for file syncing, then when the web
terminal is started, a **Terminal** status will be visible in the status bar.

![Web IDE Client Side Evaluation](img/terminal_status.png)

Changes made to your files via the Web IDE will sync to the running terminal
when:

- <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>S</kbd> (or <kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>S</kbd> on Mac)
  is pressed while editing a file.
- Anything outside the file editor is clicked after editing a file.
- A file or folder is created, deleted, or renamed.

### Limitations

Interactive Terminals is in a beta phase and will continue to be improved upon in upcoming
releases. In the meantime, please note that the user is limited to having only one
active terminal at a time.

### Troubleshooting

- If the terminal's text is gray and unresponsive, then the terminal has stopped
  and it can no longer be used. A stopped terminal can be restarted by clicking
  **Restart Terminal**.
- If the terminal displays **Connection Failure**, then the terminal could not
  connect to the runner. Please try to stop and restart the terminal. If the
  problem persists, double check your runner configuration.
